#Assignment 2
##Letter to Charlie 

Dear Charlie,
  Now you can see the consequences of not taking non-required writing courses. Don’t worry. I also have classes I didn’t do, such as Math. I can help you improve your professional writing skills. Writing is one of our greatest communication forms. In the case of professional writing, it helps communicate ideas to people inside and outside of a company. If you work in a big multinational company, your writing will be read by people on the other side of the world.
  Professional writing includes writing reports on different company products, announcements on company changes (such as press releases), or simple emails. These are some examples of writing you will have to do. In your case, since you are an engineer, you will have to write status reports and create user manuals and other types of instructions. For all these, there are five core values I want you to get out of this letter: understanding the rhetorical situation, readability, quality assurance testing (QAT), user acceptance testing (UAT), and the importance of feedback.
  The rhetorical situation describes the circumstances and contexts of a piece of writing. The important elements for you to understand are audience, purpose, and occasion. When writing, you should think, “who am I writing for?” Understanding your audience will help you determine how many concepts you need to explain and the type of vocabulary you should use. For example, writing to other engineers might allow for specific lexis, while writing to a broader audience might need some more universal terms or explanations of the lexis. Then ask, “What is the purpose of my writing?” If you are informing how to use an object, you should consider the wording you use and go straight to the point. Lastly, think of the occasion: the time and place of the writing. For example, if you work for a company where the CEO has recently been involved with controversy, you might have to be careful with the wording you use. More if it's intended for an audience outside the company. From there, you will have certain expectations for your piece. Before writing, you should always ask yourself about the rhetorical situation. This will help you plan and understand the expectations.
  Once you are in the writing process, it is important to consider readability. No one likes when writing is hard to understand. In the case of professional writing, there is no poetic wording with metaphors. It is all based on productivity. Create easy-to-follow and concise writing; these are the basis of effective writing. Remember that in a professional context, “time is gold,” which applies to reading and writing. Another way to make documents more readable is by using headings and subheadings. It makes readers consume the necessary information without going through the whole document. A deeper explanation for readability can be found here.
Moreover, the concepts of Quality Assurance Test and User Acceptance Test need to become part of your vocabulary. QAT is writing reports testing the results of your object/product to see if it is successful as intended. This requires using a template with the expected and actual results followed by an explanation. UAT is if the product is accepted by the people who consume it.  For this, you will put yourself in the shoes of different clients. To help write UAT there is a general template: “As a __, I want to __, so that __.” As an engineer, you might ask how an individual in an emergency with the product might react to it and if it can find the information needed on time. For more information on UAT, you can check this out.
  It’s important to rely on feedback from others once your writing is done. This will help you spot mistakes and receive constructive advice. One case in which there was no feedback was on PagerDuty letters to employees; avoiding errors in manuals that are hard to read is key in a professional setting. There is no better tool than going away from your writing for a day or two. 
  I hope this was helpful, and consider that as you continue to practice this type of writing and make mistakes, you will get better and better. Trial and error is the way. But always keep looking at the rhetorical situation, how easy to read your writing is, QAT, UAT, and feedback. 
