# Assignment 2
## Letter to Charlie

Dear Charlie,

  I have heard that you would like some help on your writing. I am in a class that is teaching me about professional writing, and I am happy to pass down what I am learning. I plan on focusing on four key elements: audience-purpose-occasion, document usability, acceptance criteria, and quality assurance testing. I think these are the most important things to know in order to have clear, successful written communication.
First, I will focus on the audience, purpose, and occasion. These are the things to think about in order to have an appropriate tone. Audience is who you’re writing for. This is important to think about because it helps decipher the type of language you should use. For example, if you were writing something that included the task of tying a shoe, you wouldn’t explain to a 30-year-old person how to tie their shoe, but you would explain it to a 4-year-old. Understanding your audience helps you to know what to emphasize and what to not. Next, knowing the purpose helps to keep the reader focused on the importance of your writing and not get distracted by insignificant details. It also helps to save time by writing a clear, concise work. Lastly, the occasion decides whether you have to write informally or formally. Some examples of different occasions would be an announcement to a project team, an email to a coworker, or a report to your boss. These vary in formalities and must be written accordingly. You most likely would not want to start a report to your boss with the word “hey,” however, this may be appropriate to a coworker you work closely with. 
  After you have thought about the audience, purpose, and occasion, you’ll need to make sure that what you’re writing is usable because there is little point in having useful information that is difficult to read. First, think about an appropriate font. There are a few different factors that go into choosing a typeface, such as the context, letter spacing, openness of letters, size of letters, and letter mirroring. This article goes in depth on what to look for in choosing a typeface. Next, understand that the human eye gets tired, so lines of about 40-70 characters is optimal and choosing a font size between 9 and 12 helps to combat the fatigue. Another thing that will help is headings and subheadings. This breaks up the text as well as guides the reader toward specific things they could be looking for. When choosing places to insert photos, tables, or graphs, focus on not interrupting the flow of the reader by placing them at the top or bottom of the text. It is very important to make sure that the color of the typeface and page are in contrast. For example, if you have a light colored typeface, make sure the page is a significantly darker color. This makes the words stand out and easy to read. Finally, know that the human eye looks at bodies of text in an F-shaped pattern, which ties the significance of headings and subheadings, placement of images, tables, and graphs, line length, and contrast all together to make the document easy to read. 
  When writing acceptance criteria, think back to your audience, purpose, and occasion. The purpose of acceptance criteria is to make sure that users can get information they need from your writing. It is essentially a set of guidelines of what the writing needs to have in order to be valuable. In order to do this, you can use a user story. This is a one sentence prompt to make sure that you’re meeting the guidelines. The sentence is as follows, “As a ___ user, I want to ___, so that ___.” Using this fill in the blank structure helps put you in the user's point of view and make sure you’re writing helpful content for your audience, reassuring that you’re fulfilling the purpose of the piece, and that you’re writing for the correct occasion.
  Finally, to bring everything together, quality assurance tests help to double check that what you have written is helpful, clear, and usable. Do this by using the previously filled out acceptance criteria statements to guess what should happen when the “I want to ___,” is actually done. After you have your hypothesis, actually test what happens. Then, decide whether the task passes or fails. Make sure you’re logging these tests so you know what you have tested and what happens for future reference. Audience-purpose-occasion, document usability, acceptance criteria, and quality assurance testing are some of the most important things to think about when writing. By focusing on these four key elements, your work should improve significantly. Please let me know if you have any followup questions. 

Sincerely, 
Ella Gumney
